In this lecture we will learn about the tigs new to HVM L5.
Several of these tags we learned about during this course already.
So we will just review those tags briefly any tags that are new to each team L5 and haven't yet been
covered we will cover in detail many of the media tags that we learned about in the embedding media
section of this course are new to HVM L5.
These tags are audio source and video the audio tag allows us to embed audio into our web page that
the user can listen to the track tag is another new addition as of HVM L5 and can be used to add subtitles
or captions to audio or video files.
The embed tag is used as a container for plug ins or interactive content that we can add to our webpage
on the HTL graphic side of things we already learned about two new additions canvas and SVGA other new
tags that we have already covered.
Our article aside details fig caption figure footer header Mark menu item nav summary and section.
Let's learn about some of the new tags to HVM L5 that we haven't covered beady eyes issue of bi directional
isolation and the be-I tag is used to isolate a part of the text that could be formatted in a different
direction than the surrounding text.
This particularly comes in handy when embedding certain language texts like Arabic to our Web page.
Since Arabic is written from right to left the dialog tag allows us to create pop up boxes and modals
on our Web page to see an example of this.
Let's.
First they had an opening and closing dialog tag to our Web page.
The content that we had between these tags is displayed within the dialog window.
Then we will add the open attribute which tells the browser that the dialog box is open and displayed
on our Web page.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code.
We should see the dialog displayed on our Web page.
Then we will jump back to the editor.
The main tag is used to define the main content on a webpage.
Each web page can have only one main element on it.
Anything inside of the main element should be unique to the document.
For this example we will add an H1 element and a P element inside of our main element.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
The meter tag allows us to display a gauge on our webpage.
Let's add an opening and closing meter tag to our code.
Then we will use the value property and provide a decimal value between 0 and 1 percent of the gauge
that will be displayed as full.
Let's jump over to the web browser
when we run the code.
You will see the gaged displayed as 50 percent full we will then go back to the editor the progress
tag allows us to display a progress bar on a webpage.
We used a value attribute to show the current value of the progress bar and the max value to represent
the maximum value that the bar goes up to in order to be full.
In this example we will give our progress bar a value of 40 and a max value of 100.
Then we will go to the web browser when we run our code in the browser.
You will see that the progress bar is 40 percent full.
Let's jump back to the editor the time tag allows us to define a human readable date or time.
This tag also makes it possible for programs to send time based alerts and reminders to users and also
helps search engines to display better results.
We have the option of adding the time as content to be displayed or using the date time attribute and
giving it a date time value.
Let's jump to the web browser and run our code as you can see the time that we typed is displayed on
our Web page.
We will go back to the editor
the WB our tag specifies where it would be okay to add a line break.
WB stands for word break opportunity.
It helps to prevent the browser from cutting off long words making the text less clear for the reader
by adding one or more WB elements to a long line of text.
We get help to ensure that the web browser breaks at specific places.
Let's go to the web browser when we run our code in the web browser we can resize the browser and observe
the breaks in the text that happened at the places that we specified.
The WDR element
in the next lecture we will recap what we learned in the section of the course.